                   KEYWORDS 

1.*Desktop* mainly divided into three parts- 1. Computation 2.Storage 3. Network

2.SOME TERMS – CPU-central processing unit GPU-graphic processing unit DPU-data processing unit TPU-tensor processing unit

3.CISC[complex instruction set computer]—closed source like intel and AMD(advanced micro devices).It develop X-86 series under ISA[intruction set arichtecture] in 1978.

4.RISC[reduced instruction set computer]—close source like ARM[Adavnce risc machine] .It has specific intruction,very fast and efficient.

5.RISC-V—it is based on RISC principles and develop in 2023 and which is a free open source.

6.KERNEL—that manages operations between computer and hardware.

   Kernel and user space Diagram

   Kernel programing language-
   C,C++,rust

7.OPERATING SYSTEM- a.Windows b.MacOS

8.LINUX-It is open source operting system made by linus torvalds.Came under UNIX[uniplexed information computer sysytem]. LINUX has two types of family- a.Debian-It contain OPERATING SYSTEM like UBUNTU[open source,developed by CANONICAL],KALI LINUX. B.RHEL[red hat enterprise linux]-It contain OPERATING SYSTEM likre centOS,oracle,fedora,red hat. Packing manager: Yum It is owned by IBM[international business machine] at 40 billon dollor.

9.NETWORK There are two types of network- 1.Internet[(WAN-wide area network) and it is a public network] 2.Intranet[(LAN-local area network) and it is a private network]

10.CLOUD COMPUTING CLOUD means internet which is a public network[distributed over multiple location]. A.AWS[amazon web services]-by amazon b.AZURE-by microsoft c.GCP[Google Cloud Platform]-by goggle

11.Ip address[internet protocol]-a unique address which identify the device on internet or on local internet .There are three types of ip address-
   Private-ex:starts with 10. ,172. ,192. .
   Public- ex:starts with 11..
   Local-ex:starts with 127.0.00[a specific number]
   Like JIO-ipv6, airtel-ipv4.

12.DNS[domain name server]- turns domain names intoIP Address. Ex:google.com

13.Routing-the process of path selection in any network.

14.BARE METAL -fresh server[which has no operating sysytem]

15.DUAL BOOT-2 operating system

16.HYPERVISOR -A program used to run and manage two or more virtual machine. There are two type of hypervisor- 
   a.type-1
   b.type-2

17.type-1 – there is no need to install operating system. Bare metal🡪hypervisor type-1🡪VM1,VM2,VM3..

18.type2—there is a need to install operating system . bare metal🡪install operating system🡪VM1,VM2,VM3🡪type 2[VM1,VM2,VM3..,Virtual box,work station,VM Ware]

19.VM WARE-it is a company of cloud computing and a open source(oracle),owned by broad com(62 billon$)

20.GPPR—general data protection regulation

21.FAANG,MAANG,MERN

22.FPGA-field programmable gate array

23.Company only make silicon chip a.taiwan b.intel c.samsung

24.Cryptography-secure information and communication

25.post-cryptography-it ia technology which is trend now a day .

26.https-s means secure socket layer(SSL)

27.SSL[secure socket layer]-ip address[layer3]+ port number[layer4]

28.Port number-a way to indentify a specific process to which an internet or other network message is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server. Eg:
   HTTP-80
   HTTPS-443
   FTP-20,21
   SMTP-25
   TELMET-23
   SSH[secure shell]-22

29.SEVEN LAYER OF OSI[OPEN SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION] ~layer7-application/protocol
   ~layer6-presentation
   ~layer5-cryptography
   ~layer4-port number[16 bits]
   ~layer3-IP ADDRESS[32 bits]
   ~layer2-hardware address-NIC,MAC
   ~layer1-digital(1 and 0)

30.TCP/IP(TRANSMISION CONTROL PROTOCOL)-layer5+layer6+layer7

31.URL-uniform resource locator

32.cache-it is a high-speed data storage layer which stores a subset of data [temporary memory]

33.Switch – connects device in network to each other, enabling them to each other, enabling them to talk by exchanging data packets.

34.Virtual Machine – created by using Hypervisor

35.FPGA – Field Progarmming Gate Arrays – Configurede after manufacturing

36.Protocol – It is a standardized set of rules for formatting and processing data.

37.Firmware- It is micro code or program that is embedded into memory of hardware device to help them operate.

39.TLS – Transport layer security encrypts data send over the internet.

40.Stack – Stack is a linear data structure that follows a particular order in which the operation are peroformed. LIFO(Last In First Output).

41.IAM- Identity and access management

41.nginx – proxy server

42.apache- client server – uses httpd(d stands for dameon: continuously runs in background) that creates a pool of child processes or threads to handle requestes.

43.ASICSs- (Applications – specfic integrated circuits) are computer chips that combine sveral different circuits or all one chip – Its a “System-on-a-chip” (SoC) design.

44.UDP- User datagram protocol, is a commuincation protocol used acrros the internet for especially time- sensitive transimission

45.Packets- Its a small segment of a large message. Data send over computer networks, such as internt, is divided into packets, recombined by client computer

46.Load balancer- It is the method of distributing network traffic eqaully across a pull of resources that support an application.

47.Von Neumann architecture and harvard architecture
   Von newman artichecture diagram

48.Data Structure flow chart

49.OOPS[object-oriented programming system]🡪 C + OOPS=C++.

50.OOPS contain—a.class b.object c.reference d.construction

51.TYPES OF OOPS
   Diagram

52.IDE-INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT ENVIROMENT

TERMS RELATED TO CLOUD COMPUTING-
a.IAAS (infrastructure as a service): Amazon web service(AWS),Google computer engine (GCE),Microsoft AZURE.
b.SAAS (software as a service): dropbox,google workspace,and salesforce.
c.PAAS (platform as a service): VM Ware,oracle cloud platform(OCP),adobe commerce.

54.TYPES OF CLOUD –
a.Public Cloud – It is cloud computing that`s delivered via the internet and shared accross thr organisation.
b.Private Cloud -it is a cloud computing that is dedicated solely to your organisation.
c.Hybrid Cloud-it is any environment that uses both public and private cloud.

55.Benefits of cloud computing-
a.scalability
b.accessibility
c.redundancy
d.efficiency
e.security
f.go global in minutes

56.LINUX COMMAND command

57.UBUNTU DIRECTORIES
Command

58.COMPUTER BASICS-

a.SSL CERTIFICATE-An SSL certificate is a digital certificate that authenticates a website’s identity and enables an encrypted connection. SSL stands for Secure Sockets Layer, a security protocol that creates an encrypted link between a web server and a web browser.standard form of certificate is X.509.

b.NAT-Network address translation (NAT) is a method of mapping an IP address space into another by modifying network address information in the IP header of packets while they are in transit across a traffic routing device.

59.BLOCKCHAIN-

a.It is a advanced database mechanism that allows transparent information sharing with in a business network.

b.It made by SANTOSHI NAKAMOTO in 2008.

60.CURRENCY
a.Bitcoin-it is a innovative payment network and a new kind of money.Bitcoin is open-source; its design is public, nobody owns or controls Bitcoin and everyone can take part.

b.Ethereum-Ethereum is the community-run technology powering the cryptocurrency ether (ETH) and thousands of decentralized applications.Ethereum and its apps are transparent and open source.

c.ICO-An initial coin offering (ICO) is an event where a company sells a new cryptocurrency to raise money.

d.MLM-Multi-level Marketing (MLM) or network marketing, is individuals selling products to the public – often by word of mouth and direct sales.

61.API:AN application Programming Interference (API) is a way for two or more computer programs to communicate with each other.
It is a type of software interface, offering a service to other pieces of software.
A document or standard that describes how to build or use such a connection or interface is called an API specification.
 

